Well, welcome to the Get Fit with Jodell show. I am super stoked because it's time for another
mind-blowing episode with Dr. Ray Peat. Dr. Peat and I decided to do listener questions
today so I can hardly wait to hear his responses to some really great questions that people
put up on the posts and on my Facebook and things like that. So I appreciate you guys
asking questions and Dr. Peat, I appreciate you because once again I'm so honored beyond
words to have you with me. Thank you so much. So are you ready for this slew of questions?
Yep, go ahead. Okay, great. Well, we'll start with this person wanted to remain anonymous
but they said and it was kind of an interesting question. They said, can you give us your
opinion on the current fitness trends and also what your daily exercise looks like?
So this one's a little personal to you, Dr. Peat. Oh, I never exercise. Well, once about
every 10 years I do some exercises just to see how things are working. But the idea of
exercise I think is not biologically sound. I think all of your activities should be intentional
in some way constructive or at least play forgiving. And the idea of exercise seems
to be more fulfilling a duty or obligation rather than doing something just because it's
fun or productive. Yeah, so that kind of takes me down. I'm going to go a little further
down on my list because there was another person that asked a similar question about
exercise and this was an individual who likes to run. And this woman said, if a woman would
like to run on a regular basis for enjoyment, is that something that's beneficial and does
she need to be more vigilant as far as PUFA intake and environmental estrogens? If you
have a very pretty place to run in, like the natives of northern Mexico have canyons and
interesting sceneries to run through just to do their social visits and tend to their
chores and such. So running is part of their lives. But it's also meaningful in many ways.
It isn't just running down the street to a certain point and coming back. The rote-ness
of it, the predictability and the sameness of it I think is actually somewhat harmful
to your nervous system. Yeah, so what you're saying is more you're thinking in terms of
movement. Like people need to move their bodies but not necessarily getting on a treadmill
or an elliptical machine to hash out 45 minutes just because they feel like they should. Yeah,
the brain, the mind has to move at least as much as the body. And when you're on a treadmill
or running down a certain track, your mind is not moving. Your body is moving but your
mind is in a rut. And being in a rut is biologically harmful. From a stress standpoint, right?
So sometimes these exercises that we're trying to do to get our bodies in shape, if we don't
enjoy them, they can actually be stress-inducing, yes? Yep. And deepening the rut, a habit of
doing something that isn't pleasurable or meaningful deepens your tolerance for meaninglessness
and you're at risk of sinking into routine behavior and routine life. Yeah, I like that.
I like not living a life, like you said, not a meaningless existence or having meaningless
in your life. We need to have meaning in everything we do. So I like that approach. The next question
is, "Dr. Peat, could you please tell us the difference between a dairy allergy and lactose
intolerance? Like what different symptoms would we expect between the two and what can
we also do in case it's actually a dairy allergy?" So I guess in terms of them saying, "If it
is a dairy allergy versus the intolerance, what can we do?" And I'm sure you have some
insight on this as to what they can do to kind of make the intolerance go away because
I've heard you talk about that. Yeah, an allergy can be deadly. A mild allergy is just annoying.
It makes, if it's on your tongue or mouth, it makes it burn and maybe swell up a little.
If it's serious, it will make your membranes swell up just to a hideous extent so that
you can't move your tongue, can't swallow. And any of the surfaces that it reaches, if
it's a real allergy, it can stop the function and make it impossible to breathe, for example,
which is fatal. But a lactose intolerance is simply the inability to absorb and digest
milk sugar. And if you have a sugar in your intestine that can't be absorbed, it has a
laxative effect and it tends to run through you. Or if you have the wrong kind of bacteria,
the bacteria can convert it to gas. And so gas is the most common symptom for lactose
intolerance. And so like I've heard you mention before, if somebody does have an intolerance,
I've heard you talk about how different approaches towards nutrition can actually help that
individual develop a tolerance and be able to eat dairy, yes?
Yeah. Deficiency of thyroid hormone creates various inefficiencies metabolically. Low
production of digestive enzymes is typical. Low stomach acid sometimes. And the enzymes
to digest lactose, among other things, will be low when your thyroid hormone activity
is low. And so most thyroid people, as a rule, to some extent have a lactose intolerance.
And just fixing the thyroid function will improve their digestion of milk. There were
studies of people who were theoretically genetically unable to digest lactose because of their
race. And the tests done in those people, starting with half a glass of milk or a quarter
of a glass of milk every day, doing that for a few weeks, they found that these genetically
intolerant people were able to induce the enzyme. The enzyme is there in infancy and
it's just a matter of keeping it active or reinducing it as an adult by giving your intestine
the exposure to a daily amount of lactose.
Okay, that's interesting. So I'm going to throw in my own question here. So let's say
somebody, like you said, we have that since infancy has the ability to digest dairy, but
like all of a sudden in their older years, they can't digest it anymore. Like what would
be the cause of that? Would that have to do with the low thyroid and like you were mentioning
the low stomach acid?
Or a vitamin deficiency. And vitamin deficiencies and thyroid deficiencies often go together.
As your digestive system slows down from low thyroid, you will absorb poorly and be more
likely to get a vitamin deficiency.
Okay, well then hopefully that's helpful to that listener that they can start to maybe
take some thyroid and be able to replenish their ability to take in dairy. Because that
actually happened to me. Once I got my thyroid working after that toxic mold exposure, I
was able to do dairy again, which before I'd been having problems with it. So yeah, I think
you're obviously spot on.
I've known people who recovered from a variety of very different kinds of allergies or sensitivities.
Aspirin sensitivity is another thing that is supposed to be genetic. But I have a friend
who was, for 55 years of his life, he was thought to be aspirin intolerant. And now
he takes aspirin every day.
Wow, that's fantastic. Okay, so there is hope for those people that have intolerances
to certain things. The next question we got was, what is the root cause of grinding of
the teeth? Or I guess it's called bruxism, is that right?
Yeah, and serotonin excess is one of the things that happens during the night. And usually
an irritation in the intestine during the night. As your blood sugar goes down, your
nerves and immune system become more irritable because of the falling energy supply. And
that irritability during the night, even though the food wasn't causing an allergic reaction
during the daytime, during the night, the falling blood sugar makes you start sensing
relatively toxic things in your intestine or irritating things. And that causes the
intestine to increase its production of serotonin. And serotonin is closely connected with bruxism.
That's really interesting. So someone would want to get their serotonin levels down in
order to prevent that from happening.
Yeah, usually just looking at your diet and finding things that are not well digested.
Green salads are the worst offenders. They never can be digested by a human being. And
so they feed whatever bacteria or fungus happens to be in your system. And then the fungus
or bacteria will make toxins that irritate the intestine so that it overproduces things
such as histamine, serotonin, and nitric oxide.
Yeah, I can't tell you how many people will, well, women especially will say, "Well, I
have a green salad every day and yet I have a lot of digestive issues." You know, we want
to tell them, "Well, here's your sign. That's why it's happening." Like you said, we can't
digest all of those greens.
Yeah, we simply don't have enzymes to digest them. There were experiments with rats feeding
them fresh, raw vegetables or the same vegetables that had been canned at very high temperature
and pressure. And supposedly the nutrients are lost by high temperature cooking, but
actually because it breaks down the cellulose, it actually makes more nutrients available
so that the rats wasted away when they were fed fresh vegetables but thrived on the canned
vegetables of exactly the same sort. And you can do an experiment if you put a bit of green
salad into a plastic bag and then keep it at body temperature for two or three days,
which would happen after you ate it. See what happens to the fresh green salad after two
or three days of body temperature. Usually a foul mess.
I can imagine that would be a fun party trick to show your friends. Like, "Look what's happening
to salads when we eat them." Okay, so Rachel asks the next question. She says, "What does
Dr. Peat feel are the better exercises," of course we touched on that, "foods, supplements
for middle-aged women in regards to lowering chronic stress or cortisol? I know getting
outdoors in nature and plenty of sunshine are huge lifestyle factors in helping this,
but what else? And as always, thank you." If you live in a woodsy, cold climate, cutting
wood and stacking it in the summer months is a good, useful exercise that uses your
muscles. And in the winter, or if you don't have wood to cut, dumbbells are the closest
thing to getting muscle use. I love that you just said that because I went
camping recently and my husband and my brother were showing me how to chop wood for the fire
and I fell in love with it. I told them, "I want to learn how to be a really great wood
chopper." And it was such a great workout and yet it was fun too and it was almost like
a stress reliever too. Yeah, and with a good Crescet saw, you can
saw logs for the fireplace and get push and pull exercise on your arm muscles using alternate
arms on a Crescet saw. It's like a very expensive exercise machine.
I love that. I'm going to give that a try too because I was just using an ax and chopping,
so I got the chopping mechanism, but I didn't do the push-pull. Now, she also asked what
supplements or nutrition do you recommend as far as lowering chronic stress and cortisol?
Things that are easy to digest and that don't lower your blood sugar are the most powerful
anti-stressors. Calcium, keeping the ratio of calcium to phosphate very high in your
diet has a relaxing anti-stress effect. When your muscles are active and growing, they
actually produce some testosterone. When they're under stress and not being used properly,
they tend to convert cholesterol into cortisol and actually create the stress syndrome. The
unused muscle is slightly toxic under some conditions where the used muscle is adding
to your steroid protective hormones. Wow, okay. I'm going to throw in a question
here too. Since you have a lot of history in Mexico, living down there and such, I have
kind of a favorite starchy vegetable that's jicama. I was wondering your thoughts on jicama
as far as a food that might be good for digestion or not, or what do you think about jicama
in general? I've eaten a lot of it, and I don't generally
tolerate starch as well. For example, cucumbers give me terrible gas, and even cantaloupes
are too gas-forming for me. But I never had trouble with jicama. I don't know what it
is, but it is a starch, but it isn't famously gas-producing. Yeah, I noticed that for myself
that I found it easy to digest, but there are so many other raw vegetables that if I
would try to eat them in the raw state, then I would have problems, but not that one. So
I wonder if it's because it may be part of the tuber family, like a potato.
It's in a very different family, but it's probably a different set of allergens and
antigens. Okay, well good to know. I've been wanting
to ask you that for a while, so that's good. Okay, and then Tina asks, "Does Dr. Peat advise
those coming from calorie-restricted eating and intermittent fasting protocols to slowly
increase food intake and possibly count calories?" So that's her first question. So what do you
think about somebody coming from calorie-restricted and intermittent fasting, and how would they
slowly increase their food intake and count calories, or should they?
The important thing is to watch your temperature and pulse rate as indicators of how energetic
your metabolism is. It's normal for your metabolic rate to go down during the night, but after
breakfast you should pop right up to a working temperature of 37 degrees Celsius or 98.6
Fahrenheit, and a pulse rate of more or less 80 or 85 beats per minute, I think, is good
during the day. Great, and also her second part of her question
was, "Should we take T4 with T3, or does Dr. Peat advise just taking T3?"
The value of T3 in a free form is that if you're in a hurry to correct a problem, you
can use a physiological replacement amount of T3, such as between one and four micrograms
per hour. And like with a meal, where you're going to be absorbing food for two or three
hours, 10 micrograms with a meal is a pretty physiological amount. And you can see if that
relieves your symptoms. I've seen very serious symptoms disappear in as little as a minute
after taking a five or 10 microgram dose of T3. Insomnia will very often disappear five
minutes after chewing up a bit of T3. You don't have the usual delay in getting to sleep.
And pains, arthritic pains or breast pains, for example, will disappear in from five to
15 minutes after taking some. So it's valuable for its essentially instantaneous repair functions.
But it goes away almost as fast as it takes effect. And I, for a time, was taking 25 micrograms
in the morning all at once. And after doing that for a couple of weeks, at sunset, my
heart would begin stopping every 10 seconds for two or three seconds at a time. And once
it stopped so long that I started blacking out with a shrinking visual field and had
to cough repeatedly, yet my heart started again. So I realized that taking an outsized
dose all at once after a week or two, your liver starts eliminating the T3 at an exaggerated
rate because it doesn't recognize that as a natural process. And after 12 hours of the
liver excreting it at that high rate, if you don't replace it, suddenly you've gone to
an extremely hypothyroid state, which leads to heart arrhythmia as the worst symptom.
And if you take the T4 only, a very healthy person, they tested it in the 1940s on male
medical students and said thyroxine, T4 only, had exactly the same effect that the full
thyroid substance had on these healthy young men. But they didn't test it on women. And
it happens that estrogen affects the liver and the thyroid gland, blocking secretion
of the hormone from the gland and slowing the metabolic process of the liver. So it
turns out that women have about five times the incidence of thyroid-related disease and
autoimmunity is closely connected to that feminine thyroid-estrogen interaction. So
T4 is very fine as a replacement only for healthy people. But people who have a metabolic
problem, mostly women, it's exactly the wrong thing to use. But since you don't want to
have to take four micrograms of T3 half a dozen times a day, if you take T4 in the evening,
for example, once a day, those of T4 will help to sustain things through the night.
But it should be accompanied by ideally one or two doses of T3 during the daytime. The
sustaining effect of T3 during the night means that when you're exposed to the T3, it should
activate your liver, keep the estrogen from accumulating. The liver excretes excess estrogen
and the active liver will activate the thyroid gland, protecting it from the blocking effect
of estrogen. So given the supporting effect of T3, then a woman's liver can metabolize
T4 just like a man's.
Wow, okay. That was something that I had been interested in learning about too because I
have seen people take T3 and then they say that after a couple weeks they no longer can
notice the difference on it. Would that be because the liver is starting to push some
of it out since they're taking it and now they need to up their dose?
Yes, if you take 5 or 10 or 20 micrograms at once, your liver is going to develop super
excretory enzymes to lower it faster than normal.
Okay and then taking T3 sounds like a way to remove excess estrogens from the body,
is that correct?
Yes, and that will help you handle the T4.
Well speaking of excess estrogen, there was another listener, Diego, he had a question
about anti-aromatase products such as Exemastain. So he said, "What do you think of anti-aromatase
products like Exemastain, also known as Aromazin?"
Yes, those generally have fairly serious side effects. The one of them which is a steroid,
I forget whether that's the one you named, the steroid-based one is the least toxic of
the aromatase inhibitors.
So probably needs to be careful with that then if there are some pretty harsh side effects,
yeah?
Yeah, and there are safe aromatase inhibitors, aspirin and progesterone for example, do a
very good job.
Yeah, that's a much better point, much safer to take those things for sure. Okay, we have
a gal named Christy that had a couple of questions. The first question is, "I'm losing weight
and my hands and feet are cold even with natural thyroid medication and I'm getting colder,
so why is that?"
It's important to check temperature and pulse rate as well as how you're feeling. If you
have been reducing your intake of nutrients, you might have reduced some essential nutrients
so much that you're in a stress state. High cortisol can make you lose weight under stress,
but it will be primarily muscle weight. Dieters used to go on a very low calorie diet or even
fast and find that they could lose 10 or 12 pounds in a week or 10 days. Someone did a
study analyzing what was happening to the body and they found that on an extremely low
calorie diet, the weight loss was about 80% protein and only something like 15 or 20%
fat. But if they took a moderate amount of nutrition, enough to reduce the stress hormones,
they could lose 80% fat and only 15 or 20% protein tissue. It's essential to keep your
adequate nutrition while lowering calories. The adrenaline will come up and bring cortisol
after, and the cortisol is what makes you lose muscle.
So instead, she might try adding some more calories and would it serve her if her adrenaline
is high to add carbohydrates? Definitely, yes. The carbohydrate at the right
amount will spare the protein. So 80 grams of protein a day, for example, if you're getting
the carbohydrate from orange juice, for example, comes with minerals. Potassium has a sparing
effect on the protein besides the sugar. So fruit juice plus the adequate amount of protein
will keep your metabolism up and tend to promote fat loss rather than protein loss.
That's a very good tip because anytime I've drank orange juice, I always feel warmer right
after I drink it. So I'm wondering if she would take her temperature prior to drinking
it and then after she might notice that she's getting less cold when she does that. Do you
agree? Yeah, you have to allow time for the effect
of the cold orange juice to wear off. If you drink warm orange juice, then you'll see the
warming effect immediately. Okay, very good. The second part of her question
was she doesn't have a uterus because she had it removed and her doctor told her that
she doesn't need to take it. She's taking progesterone, but her doctor said you don't
need to take progesterone if you don't have a uterus and she wanted to know if that was
true. Many doctors thought that was true 60 years
ago, but I didn't know anyone still said that. Last time I saw that was I think 1970, roughly.
It's a kind of horrifying thing to think that a doctor still can believe that progesterone
has use only to the uterus. Progesterone is one of the most basic molecules in the universe
and starting right from the ovum itself, it is involved in the structure of the ovum which
organizes the genes, the cell division mechanism, everything from the beginning of the organism
up and as the organism matures, even before puberty, progesterone is in charge of brain
development. If progesterone is low during gestation, the brain fails to develop. When
it's given as a supplement to the brain, it becomes super able, bigger and more functional
in animal experiments as well as humans. In the mature adult brain, progesterone is a
major steroid, 10 times higher in the brain for example than circulating in the blood.
So you might say that the uterus is a very minor field of operation for the progesterone
molecule. It governs brain growth, brain function. If it's low, a woman will experience epileptic
seizures when the brain progesterone falls too low, mood, depression, deficiency of progesterone
affects every aspect of life.
Question from Christy. She wanted to know are sulfur supplements good or bad such as
in the form of MSM?
When people email me that question, I send them a couple of articles from about 40 years
ago I think it was. A woman in a California hospital was brought in and she exploded in
the operating room. She died and several of the staff were injured. Analyzing the chemistry
of what happened, the best hypothesis seems to be that she was using MSM to treat a cancer
using very large amounts of it. Some fluke in the way it metabolized led to that toxic
explosion. That only happened once but I think it's good for people to be aware of that chemical
analysis that was done in California as an indicator of how little is known about the
supplements that people so commonly use without knowing very much about the actual chemistry.
So she literally exploded, like her body exploded?
Yeah, or the gases around, they had opened a big incision. A surge of emissions, I think
it was described as an explosion, but the fumes quickly knocked out several of the staff.
Yeah, well that's definitely a supplement that we want to stay away from. I know you
mentioned that they took it for cancer, but why do people take MSM? I've never recommended
it to my clients, but are there other reasons people take it and is there something they
could take instead?
If they're doing it as an anti-inflammatory, yeah there are lots of anti-inflammatory things.
The safest approach I think is to try to look at causes and see what the particular problem
is. Low blood sugar leads to inflammation, too much unsaturated vegetable oil in the
diet amplifies inflammation, too much phosphate in the diet relative to calcium is a very
powerful promoter of inflammation. Things that over-activate the parathyroid gland will
lead to inflammation, fibrosis, calcification. The thing that these supplements are recommended
for, they almost always have a clear cause that can be approached. Supplementing calcium,
for example, avoiding things that are over-rich in phosphates, too much wheat, too many beans,
too many nuts, for example, those are all heavy in phosphates.
Yeah, I can't tell you how many people I talk to about going off of nuts and seeds and for
whatever reason, PUFA as well as oxalates as well as inflammatory responses like what
you're talking about and how much better they feel after even less than a week they notice
the difference being off of nuts and nut butters and seeds and things like that.
Okay, so Trudy asks, "I would love to know Dr. Ray Peat's stance on colostrum powder
and powdered milk."
One thing that I just ran across a few months ago was that the dehydrating and powder producing
industry has sometime in recent years, they have begun using nanoparticles to prevent
clumping of their powders and colostrum is a good idea. Powdered milk is just a wonder
food for convenience. I've used hundreds of pounds of it myself but recently running across
this bit on the new technology, just so that the powder will flow easily, they're actually
microscopically coating it with nanoparticles and I haven't found any industry source which
admits that they're using it but on the internet you can look at nanoparticles and powdered
milk products. You can find lots of articles about the use of it, people selling the technology
to be used and these nanoparticles, if they're in a particular size range, are carcinogenic
and pro-inflammatory. For several months I haven't been recommending some of my favorite
recipes such as the powdered milk pancakes, flourless pancakes and biscuits and so on
because of the uncertainty of how these powders are being produced.
Yeah, there's so many things that start out great and then they process them a different
way and we as health advocates have to say, "Okay, well at one time I recommended those
but now I can't because they're changing the processing of it." So that's unfortunate.
Yeah, that happened with vitamin C in the mid-1950s. The research that made it famous
was done in the 40s and early 50s and I used it myself and with two tablets, tiny tablets
of 50 milligrams each, I ended a very intense poison oak allergy so that I could work in
the lab without a trace of poison oak sensitivity just after basically 100 milligrams of synthetic
vitamin C. But the next time I took it, it had come down in price by about 90% and the
tablets were now 500 milligrams instead of 50 milligrams and it caused cold symptoms
and other allergy symptoms when I took it. And after my own experience, I started mentioning
that to other people who had chronic sinus inflammation, runny nose, post nasal drip,
cough, hemorrhoids, all kinds of mysterious ailments, I mentioned my experience with synthetic
vitamin C and a huge percentage of these people with chronic inflammatory problems solved
when they stopped taking their supplements.
Wow, yeah, there's so much I've learned from you in particular about supplements and the
things that are in them, kind of like the newsletter you had on silica and silicon dioxide,
like how these supplements start out so great and then they use these products that really
give us no reason to take them because we don't really want to be bringing sand particles
into our digestive tract.
Yeah, nano sand.
Yeah, okay, well there you go. Okay, so this next question, this is kind of a loaded question
and hopefully you can explain to the listeners what exactly these big terms are. I'm familiar
with them but I want to hear from you. So it says, "Can you ask Dr. Peat about pheochromocytoma,
paragangliomas, adrenal tumors, what we can do with this disease and is there a connection
to thyroid diseases and pheochromocytomas?"
I suspect that there is. The people that I've known with the diagnosis, I have urged them
to check their thyroid function and it happens that the people who have been diagnosed with
that were actually hypothyroid. In the absence of good thyroid function, the body looks for
alternative ways to keep working and one is to over-activate that particular kind of cell.
It can go in different directions. Excess serotonin is one of the products. Excess adrenergic
chemicals is another route. I think of it as the body's inventing ways to get around
an energy block or limitation. That happens with many of the regulatory endocrine systems.
For example, with animals, many years ago they found that if you removed one ovary of
an animal, the other ovary was very likely to develop cancer. The mechanism was because
the pituitary gland was producing enough activating gonadotropin for two hormones, it became more
active to make one ovary do the work of two ovaries. It was over-stimulating that ovary,
driving it to the point that it became a tumor or a cancer. In thyroid, there is good evidence
that the same thing happens when you are deficient in some nutrient needed to make the thyroid
hormone or have something blocking the production of the hormone. Your pituitary becomes hyperactive,
your GSH rises and chronically over-stimulates the thyroid gland, leading to thyroid cancer.
Women, I don't know what the proportion is, but they are more susceptible to developing
thyroid cancer because of the estrogen blocking the secretion of the hormone and the pituitary
having to work harder. I think it's the same chemical that can be used for a prolactin
secreting tumor, bromocriptine or cabergoline or the chemicals used to treat a prolactinoma.
Some of those can be used to treat the Cushing's syndrome and I think if you keep the pituitary
under control so that it isn't over-stimulating your adrenals, you will reduce the risk of
all of this. Once you get a tumor in the adrenal, it's too late to work on that level of the
pituitary. Low thyroid function leads to increased prolactin, for example, as well as the thyroid
stimulating hormone. The excess of gonadotropins often follows the excess of thyroid stimulating
hormone and prolactin. Serotonin, which rises from either irritation in the digestive system
or from a response to hypothyroidism, serotonin happens to drive all of the pituitary hormones.
So stress that leaves you with chronic serotonin excess can contribute to all of the tumor
developments that are driven by the pituitary gland, which would include different types
of adrenal tumors, thyroid tumors, ovarian tumors, all of the endocrine tumors.
Okay, very good. The next question comes from John and it says, "What are your thoughts
on the herbal form of ephedra, also known as Mao Hang? Is this something that can be
beneficial?"
Yeah, I've used it from the time I was four years old, I think, and first had migraine-like
headaches. I had another Mao Hang tea, a desert tea it was called, and it's a powerful stimulant,
it wakes you up. Some people have used it in an excessive, chronic way, using it just
for its stimulating purpose or for weight loss, for example. In chronic, excessive use,
it contains things that are toxic to the liver, but if it's used occasionally, medicinally,
for example, to treat nausea or a headache.
Great. And yeah, with regard to weight loss, it kind of stimulates the beta receptors,
is that right? So it's harder, like for the stubborn fat areas, I remember that from
my bodybuilding days, everybody was on ephedra because it would stimulate the beta receptors
instead of the alpha receptors.
Yeah, but free fatty acids are the result, and free fatty acids are what make fat toxic,
so it's better to eliminate the fat slowly and carefully rather than pushing it out with
a stimulant like Mao Hang.
Yes, I agree. Okay, two more questions and then I think we'll wrap it up, but the next
question is from Ann and it says, "What is your remedy, Dr. Peat, for cellulite? What
would be your cure-all or a way to begin to heal a cellulite issue?"
The immediate thing is to check your temperature, metabolic rate, look at your calorie and
water consumption. You should be evaporating at least two liters of water every day that
you can account for. So if you drink, for example, two quarts of orange juice and two
quarts of milk, you should produce a moderate amount, maybe a quart of urine per day. If
most of your water intake appears in the form of urine, that means that you're not evaporating
at a proper rate and so your metabolic rate is low. Your temperature should be kept right
around 98.6 during the daytime, the pulse rate well above the 60s, preferably in the
80s per minute. To do that might require supplementing some extra calcium, making sure you're getting
enough sodium in your diet. Having a vitamin D blood test is a good idea to make sure your
blood level is up around 50 nanograms per milliliter. Vitamin D and thyroid work very
closely together. The sodium and calcium work closely together to suppress the stress hormones
and to activate the protective hormones such as DHEA and progesterone. You still have a
tendency to what they call cellulite. For a quick remedy, supplementing progesterone
and DHEA, rubbing it into those areas and taking 5 or 10 milligrams orally can activate
the connective tissue metabolism to toughen up the tone of the tissue and help it get
rid of the water. I love that. Out of all of my time researching weight loss and fat
loss and cellulite and things like that for clients, I've never heard somebody say rub
that into your skin. You're on the cutting edge. You're always coming up with things
that no one else is saying, which is what I really enjoy about you.
That brings me to my last question. I wanted to ask you a question that was kind of personal,
but I was hoping that it would be kind of a fun question for you to answer. What is
your favorite pastime? What do you do for fun?
I think painting is my favorite thing.
Yeah, I've seen some of your artwork online and it's really beautiful.
Yeah, whenever I can get someone to sit for me, I like to paint portraits.
Well, that's great. So that's what I call my vitamin P, pleasure, passion, purpose,
and we have to get vitamin P as well as all these other vitamins. Wouldn't you agree?
Yeah, definitely. It's really the key to the whole thing is to make it work pleasurably.
Yeah, absolutely. Well, Dr. Peat, this has been so interesting and fun and I just really
appreciate your time on all of these questions and I hope the listeners who submitted questions
do too. We're definitely going to have to do this again because I think people are really
going to benefit from all of the information, so I appreciate that. So we'll say bye for
now. Any parting words you wanted to leave the listeners with?
Nope.
Okay. Well, make sure you check out Dr. Peat's newsletter and sign up for that. Go ahead
and give them the way they can sign up for that, Dr. Peat.
Oh, okay. My website, raypeat.com, has a lot of my newsletters and articles, but the email
address for my newsletter is raypeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
Yes, and I highly encourage you guys listening to go get that. It's a way to support Dr.
Peat for all of this amazing time that he gives to us and to show him your appreciation
and learn a lot of great info. So I love that about you and thank you once again, Dr. Peat.
We'll do this again soon.
Okay. Thank you. Goodbye.
Okay. Bye for now.
What's up, YouTube followers? Just a quick promo code for you of my show sponsor, dropenufm.com.
You can get healthy oil packets like coconut oil, MCT oil, and their little pork sticks,
salt and pepper pork sticks, no hormones, no nitrates, no artificial anything. Just
really great ingredients that are quick and easy and on the go. Use my code, getfit, G-E-T-F-I-T,
to save 10% and go to dropenufm.com today to get your packets of on the go convenient
foods, healthy convenient foods. And it's a healthy way to drop an F-bomb today.
[End of Audio]
[BLANK_AUDIO]